---
title: About
---
Following the February 2019 Executive Order on Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence and the September 2019 White House Summit on AI in Government, the U.S. GSA’s Technology Transformation Service (TTS), the organization that improves the lives of the public and public servants by transforming how the government uses technology,has established a team focused on AI in government.

The mission of the TTS AI Portfolio is to help Federal agencies deliver better services and experiences and achieve their respective missions through the investment in, and appropriate application of, artificial intelligence. This Executive’s Guide to AI in Government is one early product of a broader array of products and platforms, along with the TTS Artificial Intelligence Community of Practice (AI CoP). The AI Portfolio continues to provide resources and build products and platforms that contribute to the larger TTS AI Portfolio mission. The TTS AI Portfolio is the destination where the U.S. federal government engages each other on the application of AI in government.

# About

Artificial intelligence (AI) refers to computer science techniques that attempt to simulate human cognitive capabilities. AI will bring about transformative change to most, if not every aspect of humanity, which presents a range of challenges and opportunities. It has already revolutionized the business world and its application across the U.S. Federal government is fundamentally changing the way agencies meet their mission. Government must take these challenges and opportunities head on to stay on the leading edge, sustain a competitive advantage on the global stage, and ensure the long term prosperity of the United States. This guide intends to help government decision makers develop clarity about what AI means for them and their agencies.

Because AI is such a broad term with new applications emerging across industry and government, the guide begins with baseline definitions of key terms like artificial intelligence, analytics, machine learning, and data science. Then it describes the fundamentals of what AI is and what it isn’t by dispelling some commonly held myths of AI. The guide then explores how government agencies can envision the journey to AI and how to think about the likely impact of AI and automation on the future of work. It does this through describing the complexities inherent in building AI capabilities and in applying them. The guide provides a foundational perspective on the building blocks of successful AI adoption:people and organization,processes, and data and technology. It then applies these concepts to application in AI use case and projects specifically focusing on responsible AI adoption and development.

This guide helps agency leaders understand what to consider as they make investments in AI and lay the foundation for its enterprise-wide use. This is not a technical guide. Rather, it helps leaders think through the building blocks that must be constructed to take advantage of AI, and apply AI to a wide range of use cases at the project level, and to do so responsibly. This guide is not intended to give an in-depth understanding of these complex issues. Rather, it is meant to serve as an initial foundation for leaders, from which to build on.